README.md, before:

# UrduScript

![](docs/head.png?raw=true)

UrduScript is an [Urdish](http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=Urdish) dialect of JavaScript. The goal is to make programming more accessible to beginners from South Asia. UrduScript uses informal Urdu analogies to programming concepts, making it easy to get started without remembering keywords.

UrduScript transpiles to JavaScript. All JavaScript frameworks (like jQuery, UnderScore, React, etc) can be seemlessly used.

### Hello World

```js
// declare variable
rakho naam = "Asad"

// output to console
likho("Hello, " + naam)
```

[**Try it online here**](https://asadmemon.com/urduscript/editor/).

### Contributing

This is a open project and I am open to all ideas and improvements. See [this page](https://asadmemon.com/urduscript/contribute).



### Acknowledgments

- Project is only possible due to [Sweet.js](https://github.com/sweet-js/sweet-core).
- The online editor uses the wonderful [CodeMirror](https://github.com/codemirror/CodeMirror).
- Special thanks to Ali Alavi, Osman Mian, Eric Bhatti for their help.

Commit message:

Installation process included in Readme.md
With regards to issue #1 to show how to run UrduScript locally.

README.md, after:

# UrduScript

![](docs/head.png?raw=true)

UrduScript is an [Urdish](http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=Urdish) dialect of JavaScript. The goal is to make programming more accessible to beginners from South Asia. UrduScript uses informal Urdu analogies to programming concepts, making it easy to get started without remembering keywords.

UrduScript transpiles to JavaScript. All JavaScript frameworks (like jQuery, UnderScore, React, etc) can be seemlessly used.

### Installation and running
##### Prerequisites:
In order to run UrduScript on your computer, you need to install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) first. 
##### Installing:
- Download zip or clone the repository
- Inside your project directory, run:
```js
npm install
```
##### Running:
If the npm install was success full, run:
```js
npm start
```
Open your browser and type
```js
http://localhost:3030
```
### Hello World

```js
// declare variable
rakho naam = "Asad"

// output to console
likho("Hello, " + naam)
```

[**Try it online here**](https://asadmemon.com/urduscript/editor/).

### Contributing

This is a open project and I am open to all ideas and improvements. See [this page](https://asadmemon.com/urduscript/contribute).



### Acknowledgments

- Project is only possible due to [Sweet.js](https://github.com/sweet-js/sweet-core).
- The online editor uses the wonderful [CodeMirror](https://github.com/codemirror/CodeMirror).
- Special thanks to Ali Alavi, Osman Mian, Eric Bhatti for their help.
